what is the primary aim of the bridgestone world solar challenge? The aim of the Bridgestone World Solar Challenge is to stimulate research into, and development of, energy efficient vehicle designs and technologies to support the global challenge to decarbonise mobility.
Who owns the World Solar Challenge? The biennial World Solar Challenge is owned by the Government of South Australia and managed by the South Australian Motor Sport Board.
What is the application fee for entry in Australian Dollars (AUD)? An application fee of $2,000 Australian Dollars (AUD) is payable upon submission of the online entry form.
Is the application fee refundable? The application fee, which forms part of the total entry fee, is non-refundable.
What is the allowed maximum solar collector area for Challenger vehicles? A Challenger vehicle must not have more than 6.000 m2 of solar collector area.
Are there solar collector area limits for Cruiser vehicles? The solar collector area for Cruiser vehicles is unrestricted, but the solar collector must be within the allowable dimensions of the Competition Vehicle.
What is the official language of the Event? The official language of the Event is English.
What time zone is used during the Event? The time zone for the event is Australian Central Standard Time (ACST = UTC + 9.5).
What must each Competition Vehicle have in terms of identification? The Competition Vehicle must have a Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) permanently attached to a substantial part of the vehicle chassis or frame.
What kind of driving licence is required for Competition Vehicle drivers? Each Competition Vehicle driver must hold an appropriate motor vehicle driver's licence recognised by Australian authorities and valid for the total period of the Event.
What must each team do regarding the Event schedule? All Teams must adhere to the Event Schedule, attend official functions, media calls, promotional activities and public engagement activations with their Competition Vehicle or other team vehicles or equipment as listed or requested.
How are driving licences checked as part of the scrutineering process? Driving licences will be inspected and verified by Australian road transport authorities as part of the scrutineering process.
Can a Team Manager hold multiple official roles? A person holding the position of Team Manager, Safety Officer or Battery Officer must not hold any other of these roles.
What are the requirements for Event signage on Competition Vehicles? Competition Vehicles must incorporate Event signage in unbroken rectangular spaces 200 mm high and 500 mm wide on both the left and the right sides of the vehicle.
How is ballast assigned for Challenger and Cruiser vehicle occupants? Each Challenger and Cruiser vehicle occupant will be assigned ballast so that the combined mass of the occupant and their ballast is at least 80 kg.
Describe the service braking system required for the Competition Vehicle? The Competition Vehicle must be equipped with a service braking system that enables the driver to control the Competition Vehicle and bring it to a halt without removing either hand from the steering control.
What must the Competition Vehicle have in terms of an audible warning? An audible warning device complying with the intent of UNECE Regulation 28 must be fitted to the Competition Vehicle.
At what rate per minute must direction indicators flash according to the regulations? 2.23.11 Direction indicators must flash at 90±30 flashes per minute.
Is it allowed to swap batteries during the Event? Battery swapping (or the equivalent for other types of energy storage) is not permitted.
List the telemetry data required at 10-second intervals while driving and charging? The telemetry data must include the following measurements taken at 10-second intervals while driving and while charging? - distance travelled - longitude and latitude (if available) - cumulative energy generated from the solar collector - cumulative energy from the battery (increases when energy is taken from the battery, decreases when the battery is charged) - UTC time.
Are passengers required in Cruiser vehicles? Cruiser vehicles must have two occupants while driving.
Can media cause penalties for teams? Teams will be held accountable, through the application of event penalties, for the unacceptable actions of media representatives travelling with or in support of their Team, whether registered as such or not.
What is the definition of high voltage in the electrical safety section? The term 'high voltage' means more than 60 V dc or more than 30 V rms ac.
When must stop lamps operate? The stop lamps must operate whenever driving is possible, and the brakes are applied.
What is the speed rating requirement for tyres? The speed rating of the tyres must be more than the maximum speed of the Competition Vehicle.
What is the parking brake requirement in terms of incline or decline? The parking brake must hold the fully laden Competition Vehicle on a 20% incline or decline.
What is the parking brake requirement in terms of equipment? 2.20.11 Competition Vehicles must be equipped with a parking brake that can be operated by the driver from the normal driving position.
What is the requirement for Sound pressure level? Sound pressure level must be more than LA = 105 dB measured 2 m from the horn.
How many times must the audible warning device be able to cycle? The audible warning device must be capable of operating for 50,000 cycles of on for one second and off for four seconds.
What is the minimum requirement for rear vision activation? Rear vision systems must operate whenever the Competition Vehicle is in motion under its own power or about to be driven.
What must steering wheels be designed to prevent? Steering must be controlled by a steering wheel designed so that it cannot catch on clothing while driving or when the driver exits the Competition Vehicle.
Are rear-view images required to be correctly oriented? Rear vision images must be upright and oriented so that objects on the right of the Competition Vehicle are on the right of the image.
What is required for Direction indicators in terms of flashes per minute? Direction indicators must flash at 90±30 flashes per minute.
What must the Competition Vehicle do in a slalom test? Competition Vehicles must be able to negotiate a slalom course in less than 11.5 seconds, in all driving configurations.
How must the Competition Vehicle behave in crosswinds while driving? The Competition Vehicle must be stable at all achievable speeds and in crosswinds likely to be encountered, in all driving configurations.
What part of the body must be used for positioning the ballast? Each occupant of Challenger and Cruiser vehicles must secure their ballast inside the Competition Vehicle within 300 mm of their hip point.
What is the vehicle turning radius requirement? The Competition Vehicle must be able to turn in each direction within a circle with a radius of 7.5 metres, measured to the extreme outer edge of the tyre track at ground level.
Are capacitors counted in the energy storage if under a certain value? Capacitors are not considered to be part of the energy storage system if their total energy storage capacity is less than 36 kJ.
How should external solar charging devices be transported? All devices used for solar charging must be carried in the Competition Vehicle. This includes stands, supports, and cables.
How many seats must a Challenger vehicle have? Challenger vehicles must have one seat.
How must the Competition Vehicle handle steering failure? Failure of any non-mechanical component of the steering system must not prevent effective steering of the Competition Vehicle.
What are the minimum and maximum tyre requirements based on? The load rating of each tyre must be more than the maximum static load imposed on it by the fully laden Competition Vehicle.
What must be done to import a Competition Vehicle into Australia? Motor vehicles, including Competition Vehicles, entering Australia require a federal import permit.
Who is responsible for arranging freight for teams? The Entrant is responsible for all freight arrangements.
What must all teams do concerning visas? Citizens of countries other than Australia or New Zealand need a visa to enter Australia. Visas are the responsibility of the individuals concerned.
Who determines the nominal cell energy if there are conflicting specs? If the Event Organiser receives conflicting or unclear specifications of electrochemical cell energy for a cell model, the Chief Energy Scientist will determine the nominal cell energy for cells of that model.
What must each energy storage pack be capable of withstanding structurally? Energy storage packs must be mounted in the Competition Vehicle so that they will be restrained in a 20 g acceleration in any direction.
Are experimental tyres allowed in the event? Experimental or prototype tyres must be approved by the Australian road traffic authorities.
What is the maximum allowed energy storage for Challenger vehicles? Energy storage capacity must be no more than? - 11 MJ for Challenger vehicles - 55 MJ for Cruiser vehicles.
What must each Team include in terms of roles? - a Team Manager - a Safety Officer, responsible for the safety of the team - a Battery Officer, responsible for the Competition Vehicle battery - an interpreter if the Team Manager is not proficient in English - at least three (3) and at most six (6) Competition Vehicle drivers - at least two (2) drivers for each support vehicle (Competition Vehicle drivers should not drive support cars on the same day as driving the Competition Vehicle) - at least one (1) person with a recognised first aid certificate that is current for the duration of the Event Period, and who is not the Team Manager, Safety Officer or Battery Officer 16 - passengers for Cruiser teams.
What must Challenger vehicles be optimised for? Challenger vehicles will be optimised for converting solar irradiance to speed; Cruiser vehicles will be judged on practical design aspects as well as efficiency.
How many drivers must a team include at minimum? 3.6.4 A minimum of two (2) drivers must be available for every vehicle associated with the Team.
What happens if the entry fee is not paid by the deadline? Failure to pay by due date will void the qualification for Early Entry fees and a secondary invoice will be issued for the Standard Entry fee.
How many Team Members are covered by the Team Member Registration fee? - Team Member Registration fee of up to twenty (20) team members.
What is the deadline to apply for Early Entry? 1.14.5 Applications submitted before 17:00 (ACST) on Friday 30 August 2024 will be considered an Early Entry and qualify for the Early Entry fee.
Can participants under 18 join the Event? 1.19.7 The Event Organiser is unable to take responsibility for any person under the age of 18.
What types of batteries are exempt from being counted as energy storage? Batteries used only to - power a real-time clock when the Competition Vehicle is turned off; or - retain data when the Competition Vehicle is turned off; or - power wireless tyre pressure monitors are not considered to be part of the energy storage system, provided that the total energy capacity does not exceed 10 kJ.
What is required for safe disconnection of external charging? - charging must stop automatically when the energy storage system is full or if a fault occurs.
Where must the national flag be displayed? The national flag of the country of entry (as confirmed by the Event Organiser in line with Regulation 1.20.2) must be displayed on the Competition Vehicle, adjacent to the windscreen. Minimum height is 40 mm. The flag must not be broken. Flags will be included on Event and vehicle signage for recognised countries only, as per DFAT protocols.
What is the requirement for the rear license plate location? - the registration plate must be within 50 mm of the rearmost part of the Competition Vehicle.
What is the minimum height for rear stop lamps? - the lowest point on the apparent surface of each stop lamp must be at least 350 mm above the ground.
What must be demonstrated for directional vision by the driver? Each driver, when seated in the normal driving position with safety-belt and helmet on, must be able to identify 75 mm high letters at every point of forward travel that is? - 4 m from the driver's eyes, and - between 0.4 m below eye level and 0.7 m above eye level, and - between 100° left and 100° right of the direction of travel.
What is the required minimum distance from hip to head restraint for rear Cruiser seats? The distance from the hip point to the top of the head restraint at the lateral centreline of the seat must be at least 800 mm for front seats and at least 750 mm for Cruiser vehicle rear seats (UNECE Regulations 17 and 25). The hip point may be approximated as shown in the diagram below.
What is the minimum distance between PVC Pat's ankles? The outer edges of PVC Pat's ankles must be 436 mm apart, as shown in the drawing. The outer edges of PVC Pat's wrist's must be able to be placed 496 mm apart.
What type of harness is recommended for maximum occupant protection? The occupant cell will provide the greatest protection when occupants are secured into the cell with fourpoint or five-point harnesses.
During the Event, what charging restrictions and battery capacity accounting apply to a commercial‑off‑the‑shelf phone or tablet used as a driver display? The device must not be charged from an external power source during the Event. The device's battery capacity will be counted as part of the energy storage capacity.
How must a commercial‑off‑the‑shelf phone or tablet used as driver display be powered during the Event? 2.5.9 If a commercial-off-the-shelf phone or tablet containing a battery is used as a driver display, it must be powered from the Competition Vehicle's electrical system.
How must a Team demonstrate that all occupants can egress the vehicle in under 15 seconds without assistance? Teams must demonstrate that all occupants can exit the Competition Vehicle in less than 15 seconds, without assistance.
What requirement must any automatic driving function meet to remain compliant during the Event? Any automatic driving function must immediately deactivate on manual input or when the Competition Vehicle is turned off.
What is the maximum forward tilt angle allowed for the driver's head relative to the spine line? PVC Pat's head can tilt forwards, but no more than 30° from the line of the spine.
What declaration do entrants make by participating in the Event regarding the Terms and Conditions and Regulations? Entrants declare that they know and understand the Terms and Conditions and Regulations of the Event and agree that participation will constitute their full acceptance to abide by and operate under the above mentioned for the duration of the Event.
What must all team members complete before a team is allowed to proceed to Dynamic Scrutineering? Teams will not be allowed to proceed to Dynamic Scrutineering until all team members have been registered in Darwin.
What is required of all team members when Static Scrutineering begins? Static Scrutineering commences. All team members are required to be in Darwin.
What is the consequence if a team changes critical vehicle documentation after submission and fails to disclose it? Failure to disclose any changes may result in exclusion from the Event.
What is the minimum drinking water storage space required per occupant in a Competition Vehicle? Each Competition Vehicle must have space for at least two litres of drinking water for each occupant.
On what aspects will Cruiser vehicles be judged during the Event? Cruiser vehicles will be judged on practical design aspects as well as efficiency.
Which cargo specifications must Cruiser vehicles satisfy for luggage storage? Cruiser vehicles must have a cargo compartment that can accommodate two items of luggage, each 560 mm × 360 mm × 230 mm. The cargo space must be separated from the Competition Vehicle mechanical or electrical systems.
Who is ineligible to serve as the Safety Officer in a team? The person holding the position of Safety Officer must not be a Competition Vehicle driver.
What incline-start capability is required of the Competition Vehicle? The fully laden Competition Vehicle must be able to start from rest on a 7% gradient.
Where must a driver’s helmeted position lie relative to the occupant cell boundary? When occupants are seated normally, with safety-belts and helmets on, they must be completely inside the convex hull of the occupant cell.
When charging with a bifacial array, how is tilted-area accounted? If a bifacial photovoltaic array is tilted for solar charging so that the front and rear surfaces are both directly exposed then the front and rear surface areas are both counted.
What parental consent documentation is mandatory for under‑18 entrants? An Entrant may make a request for a minor to be included in their team provided such request is accompanied by a document giving permission and acknowledging that supervision of the person concerned is the responsibility of the Team Manager, not the Event Organiser.
How must energy storage packs be designed to prevent unauthorized access? Energy storage packs must be rigid, self-contained boxes that cannot be opened or disassembled without using tools and can be removed from the Competition Vehicle intact.
What elements are mandatory in the vehicle’s front signage area? The front signage area must contain? - the name of the Competition Vehicle, or the name of the Team, or the number of the Competition Vehicle, readable at 3 m perpendicular to the centre of the name - a 150 × 150 mm square Event logo.
Who inspects ballast and at which points during the Event? Occupants will have their ballast checked by the Team's Observer outside the Competition Vehicle. All ballast must be removed from the Competition Vehicle at control stops.
What is the maximum RF power output allowed for the tracker? It will emit radio frequency energy with no more power than emitted by a mobile phone.
Under what conditions can a Team Manager be replaced mid‑Event? Entrants must not change their Team Manager without the approval of the Event Organiser.
In which orientation must all Competition Vehicle seats face? Each Competition Vehicle occupant must have a seat that faces forwards. The driver's legs, viewed from above, must be within 10° of the forwards direction.
Which cell specifications are teams required to submit? Teams must provide manufacturer's specifications that include? - minimum operating cell voltage - maximum operating cell voltage - maximum discharge current - maximum charge current - maximum temperature while discharging - minimum temperature while charging - maximum temperature while charging.
What safety state must battery packs be in during removal and reinstallation? Energy storage packs must be in 'safe state' while being removed from the Competition Vehicle and while being reinstalled into the Competition Vehicle.
How must the vehicle prevent operation of cells outside safe parameters? The Competition Vehicle must automatically prevent electrochemical cells from being operated outside the operating ranges for voltage, current and temperature specified by the manufacturer.
What performance must rear vision systems provide when driver is belted? The Competition Vehicle must have rear vision systems that enable the driver, when seated in the normal driving position with the safety-belt fastened, to see the ground in the shaded areas shown in the diagrams below (UNECE Regulation 46, Section 15).
How must Challenger pack enclosures be sealed electrically? Energy storage packs for Challenger vehicles must have a means of being sealed so that no electrical connection can be made to the energy storage packs.
Where must occupants’ heels be positioned relative to their hip point? Each occupant's heels, including PVC Pat's heels, must be below their hip point.
What minimum approach and departure angles are required fully laden? The fully laden Competition Vehicle must have an approach angle of at least 10° and a departure angle of at least 10°.
What approval is needed for changes after engineer certification? Any changes made after certification to items described in the roadworthiness certificate must be re-approved by the Team's certifying engineer.
Which confidentiality measures apply before Static Scrutineering? Technical details of Competition Vehicles will be kept confidential until the start of Static Scrutineering and commercial in confidence requests and media embargos will be honoured.
What must be included in Group A team documentation? Group A - Team information - Team promotional information - Publication-quality information and photographs of the Team and Competition Vehicle.
What permission is required to use the Official Logo commercially? Entrants, Teams and their sponsors wishing to use the Official Logo in a commercial context (i.e., merchandise offered for sale) must seek the written permission of the Event Organiser.
How must team websites link or reference the Event? Teams who maintain an internet presence are required to provide a link to the official Bridgestone World Solar Challenge website? www.worldsolarchallenge.org.
What aids are prohibited for forward and sideward vision? Forward and sideward vision must be achieved without the aid of mirrors, lenses, or electronic vision systems.
Which color must direction indicator lamps emit? Direction indicator lamps must emit amber light.
What formula defines the nominal energy of a cell in joules? The nominal energy of a cell, in joules, will be calculated by 𝐸𝐸 = 3600 𝑉𝑉 𝑞𝑞 where 𝑉𝑉 is the nominal discharge voltage of the cell, in volts, specified by the manufacturer, and 𝑞𝑞 is the maximum of the? - rated discharge capacity - minimum discharge capacity - typical or nominal discharge capacity, in Ah, specified by the manufacturer.
How must emergency openings and their operation be marked externally? Emergency openings, and the methods of opening, must be clearly indicated on the exterior of the Competition Vehicle, and be visible and achievable by an emergency services first responder not familiar with the Competition Vehicle.
What authorization is needed to operate drones during the Event? Remotely piloted aircraft (RPA) must not be operated without the approval of the Event Organiser.
How large and visible must team numbers be on Competition Vehicles? Teams must display their 2-digit team number on the left and the right sides of the Competition Vehicle, in digits that are more than 150 mm high and that are clearly visible against their background.
Is modification of the registration plate area allowed? You must not modify the registration plate.
Which driver information must remain visible at all times in motion? The following information must always be visible to the driver (i.e., not behind menus) while the Competition Vehicle is in motion? - the speed of the Competition Vehicle - whether the direction indicators are operating - whether the hazard lights are operating - energy storage system warnings - electronic rear vision images (if fitted).
What must happen to the tracker unit at Event conclusion? The tracker unit must be returned to the Event Organiser at the end of the Event.
What must each team describe about occupant cell impact protection? Each Team must provide a description of how the occupant cell will protect the occupants from impacts including frontal impacts, side impacts, rollover impacts, bottom impacts and wheel impacts.
What optical transmittance is required for the windscreen used in vision fields? The windscreen that is used for forward and sideward vision must have an optical transmittance more than 75%.
When and where must telemetry data be uploaded by Cruiser teams? Cruiser teams must upload telemetry data at each control stop and in Adelaide.
How must high‑voltage contact protection be designed inside compartments? Protection against direct contact with high-voltage parts inside the driver, passenger and luggage compartments must be designed to exclude objects larger than 1 mm diameter (Ingress Protection rating IPXXD).
Can energy from regenerative braking and other sources be used? It is accepted that energy from regenerative braking, road gradients and wind incident on the Competition Vehicle while driving may also be used.
Where must daytime running lamps be mounted? Daytime running lamps must be mounted at the front of the Competition Vehicle.
What voltage must capacitors be discharged to in safe state? Any such capacitors that are outside the energy storage packs or solar collector must be automatically discharged to less than 60 V within five seconds of the Competition Vehicle being placed in safe state (see Regulation 2.28).
What minimum certification is required for first aid personnel in a team? - at least one (1) person with a recognised first aid certificate that is current for the duration of the Event Period, and who is not the Team Manager, Safety Officer or Battery Officer.
What is the minimum height above ground of the lowest point on the apparent surface of each front indicator lamp? the lowest point on the apparent surface of each indicator lamp must be at least 350 mm above the ground.
What conditions must the tracker box placement satisfy so that a right circular cone with a 120° apex angle, axis perpendicular to the top face, touches every edge of the top face and no ray within the cone passes through the ground or any non–radio‑transparent part of the vehicle at 300–3000 MHz? When the tracker box is installed in the Competition Vehicle, it must be possible to construct a right circular cone with its axis perpendicular to the top face of the box and an apex angle of 120°, and with the cone touching each edge of the top face of the box, so that no ray from the apex and within the cone passes through the ground or through any part of the Competition Vehicle that is not radio transparent at frequencies between 300 and 3000 MHz. The tracker box may be tilted within the Competition Vehicle.
What information must be included in the electrical diagram to show how the e‑stop loop is de‑energised in a safe state, how the low‑voltage bus external to the energy storage pack is de‑energised in a safe state, and the battery fuses? the system that ensures the e-stop loop is deenergised in safe state, how the low-voltage bus external to the energy storage pack(s) is deenergised in safe state, and the battery fuses. The example Solar Wombat 25 electrical diagram, available on the Bridgestone World Solar Challenge team portal, indicates the level of detail required.
What professional certification must a certifying engineer hold to confirm that the Competition Vehicle is engineered correctly, stable in testing, and roadworthy for public roads from Darwin to Adelaide? Each Team must engage a professionally qualified certifying engineer to certify that the Competition Vehicle is designed and constructed using sound engineering practice, maintains stability while driving during testing, and is roadworthy and fit for being driven from Darwin to Adelaide on public roads. The certifying engineer must be qualified to report on the roadworthiness of vehicles for operation on public roads. They may consult with other engineers. In Australia, a certifying engineer must have a four-year bachelor's degree or higher in mechanical or automotive engineering, five years of postgraduate experience working in the automotive industry, and professional indemnity and public liability insurance. Other jurisdictions will have similar requirements.
What type of two‑stage latch is required for doors, canopies and top shells to ensure security even if the second stage is not fully engaged? Latched parts such as doors, canopies and top shells must be secured with two-stage latches where the first stage engages easily and is sufficient to hold the part if the second stage is not engaged properly.
What stopping distance must the service braking system achieve, with minimum regenerative braking, for a fully laden vehicle from any speed v (km/h)? The service braking system must be able to stop the fully laden Competition Vehicle within distance 0.1 v + 0.0060 v² metres from any speed v, in km/h, that the vehicle can achieve, with minimum regenerative braking. If regenerative braking is disabled when the energy storage system is full then the service braking test must be done with no regenerative braking.
What requirement applies to the electronic rear vision system images if fitted? -2.17 Rear vision 2.17.1 The Competition Vehicle must have rear vision systems that enable the driver, when seated in the normal driving position with the safety-belt fastened, to see the ground in the shaded areas shown in the diagrams below (UNECE Regulation 46, Section 15).
If the service braking system fails, what stopping distance must the secondary braking system achieve, with no regenerative braking, for a fully laden vehicle from any speed v (km/h)? If the service braking system has a failure, the secondary braking system must be able stop the fully laden Competition Vehicle, with no regenerative braking, within distance 0.1 v + 0.0158 v² metres from any speed v, in km/h, that the vehicle can achieve. Braking the single rear wheel of trike, for example, might not provide sufficient braking force.
Where must the central stop lamp be located laterally and vertically relative to the vehicle's visual centre, rear windscreen, and rear stop lamps? Viewed from behind the Competition Vehicle, the lateral position of the lamp must coincide with the visual centre of the Competition Vehicle. The lowest point on the apparent surface must be higher than a point 150 mm below the rear windscreen if the Competition Vehicle has a rear windscreen, and the bottom of the apparent surface of the lamp must be higher than the top of the apparent surface of the rear stop lamps.
What documents must be submitted under Group C? Energy Storage System Incident Plan – Team Safety Plan? Group C - Energy Storage System Incident Plan - Team Safety Plan.
How may teams generate or apply for a surrogate VIN, and what is the exact format and character set required? Teams may apply for a VIN in their own country or else generate a 'surrogate' VIN with the format? 6ZZysssssssssssss where y indicates the year of manufacture (N = 2022, P = 2023, R = 2024, S = 2025) and sssssssssssss is 13 characters using digits 0–9 and uppercase letters A–Z but not the letters I, O or Q, that includes a manufacturer code and a vehicle serial number, e.g., 6ZZSW0MBATS0LAR01.
What restriction applies to rear‑wheel steering on the Competition Vehicle, and which steering or suspension designs are not prohibited? 2.18.5 Rear-wheel steering is not permitted.
On which date and in which city does the Official Finish Line officially open? Wednesday 27 August 2025 Official Finish Line opens in Adelaide.
On what date and at which location does the official start take place? Sunday 24 August 2025 Official Start in Darwin.
What stop lamps and direction indicator lamps must be fitted to the Competition Vehicle? Competition Vehicles must be fitted with? - two rear stop lamps - one central stop lamp - left and right front direction indicator lamps - left and right-side direction indicator lamps - left and right rear direction indicator lamps - two daytime running lamps.
What is the start date of the Official Event period? Saturday 9 August 2025 Official Event period commences.
What are the three vehicle classes for the 2025 event, and how does each class differ in design focus? The Event will have three classes of Competition Vehicle? - Challenger class is for single-seat Competition Vehicles optimised for converting solar irradiance to speed. - Cruiser class is for Competition Vehicles with two or more seats that will be judged on practical design features as well as efficiency. - Explorer class is for Competition Vehicles designed to participate in previous Events but not eligible for Challenger or Cruiser class, or other Competition Vehicles approved by the Event Organiser. Explorer class is non-competitive.
What minimum clearance must exist between every point on an occupant's helmet and the convex hull of the occupant cell? There must be a gap of at least 50 mm between every point on every occupant's helmet and the convex hull of the occupant cell.
How is 'apparent surface' defined for a lamp? 'Apparent surface' is defined in the glossary and in UNECE Regulation 48.
How must a Team demonstrate compliance with photometric requirements for lamps under UNECE or SAE/DOT regulations? Teams must demonstrate compliance by either? - the presence of compliance markings on the lamps, or - detailed documentation that demonstrates compliance with the photometric requirements of the UNECE or SAE/DOT regulations, confirmed by the Team's certifying engineer.
Which type of lamp is optional but may enhance practicality for Cruiser class vehicles? Headlamps and tail lamps are not required, though would increase the practicality of Cruiser vehicles.
What printed diagrams and how many copies must be displayed to identify electrical isolation procedures in an emergency? Two printed A4 copies of a diagram of the Competition Vehicle in top view, with the front of the Competition Vehicle depicted at the top of the diagram, and clearly showing how emergency isolation is to be activated.

